الحمد بالله رب العالمين
الرحمن الرحيم
ملك يوم الدين
إياك نعبد وإياك نستعين
اهدن الصراة المستقيم
صراة الذين أنأنت عليهم
غير المغضوب عليهم
يا ربكم الذين
عليكم ورحمة الله وبركاته
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم الحمد لله رب العالمين
وبه نستعين ونصلي ونسلم
على أفضل الخلق أجمعين
نبينا محمد وعلى آله وصحبه
والتابعين ومن تبعهم بإحسان
إلى يوم الدين وبعد
We commence by praising Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
sending blessings and salutations upon Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
We ask Allah to bless him and his entire household
and to bless all his companions
and to bless all those who have struggled
and strived to protect this deen
learn it, put it into practice
convey it to others in a way that it has got to us today
and we thank Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
for being chosen to be from amongst
the followers of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
and at the same time we ask him to grant
our children steadfastness
to use us as well to convey the message to others
Beloved brothers and sisters
we had spoken yesterday about how the first people
of Madinah Munawwara had accepted Islam
and we made mention of the names of six of them
before I continue with that it's important to make mention
of the marriage of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
after the death of his wife Khadija binti Khuwalid
radiallahu anha
she was the mother of all his children who were alive
and she was the mother
and at the same time the one who was the pillar of support
at the time of need of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
when revelation first came down
so she looked after the children
and she was a wife
a very big comfort at the same time
and she maintained the home in a very beautiful way
never is there mention of a single dispute
between Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
and Khadija binti Khuwalid radiallahu anha
so after her death
may Allah be pleased with her
Khawla binti Hakim who was the wife of
Uthman ibn Madh'un radiallahu anha
she was noticing that the home of the prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
is void of a female
and the children are quite small
and she suggested to him
Ya Rasulallah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
don't you want to get married
and he made mention of Khadija
and he always made mention of Khadija radiallahu anha
so much so that he kept a good link
with all her friends even later on
he used to send for them a little bit of food
or he used to send for them a gift
or he used to get very happy
when they used to come and visit
even during his time in Medina Munawwara
may Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
make us from amongst those
who can respect our in-laws
today subhanallah
we have people who run very far away
and they don't want to know
in fact I to this day
don't understand why the term in-law is used
that term law normally refers to big problems
when you have a big issue
then you call in the lawyers and so on
Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam protect us
and grant us all goodness and ease
so Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
he had a suggestion made to him
by Khawla binti Hakim radiallahu anha
she said I suggest that you get married
he says to whom
so she said you can marry a virgin
or you can marry a non-virgin
if you would like to marry a non-virgin
I am suggesting to you to marry
Sauda binti Zam'ah radiallahu anha
a very poor lady who was married already
and her husband had passed away
she was one of those who had gone to Abyssinia
on the Hijra and on the return
her husband had passed away
and she was a person whose family
were made up of mushriks
she had accepted Islam at the very beginning
she was persecuted to a great degree
she had had her own children
and she was from one of those
who really needed protection
and she really needed to be saved
from the clutches of her own brothers
who were mushriks
her father was not that bad
although he was a mushrik
but his relation with her was not so bad
and she suggested
meaning Khawla binti Hakim radiallahu anha
says that is a good woman
she is a widow and you can marry her
and the other one if you would like
to marry a virgin
then you can marry the daughter
of your best friend
although she is very young right now
but as was the norm at that time
this is important that we listen to this
because many people claim that
Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
married a child
I seek refuge with Allah
Wallahi we need to understand
the norms of every community and society
up to this day you have people
in the Indo-Pak subcontinent
that I know about
and I am sure in other places of the world as well
whom as soon as the child is born
they say this child we fixing up with that child
and it is done
and it is an agreement by mouth
and when they grow up nowadays
you find people breaking that
but there was a time when they never ever broke that
if the father said this it was that
they were more or less married at child birth
and later on they only got to live together
that does not make them bad in any way
it was just the culture
and it still is the culture in so many places
where young age they say
okay this one fixed up with that one
it is just that the world has progressed at the moment
and communications has become so simple and easy
that we tend to have a much more broader choice today
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us a deeper understanding
and at the same time we tend to be
a little bit more free of the choices of our own parents
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us understanding
so there was a suggestion
and Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam said
you know what speak to Sawda
subhanallah look at his choice
he had children and he had
subhanallah children to be looked after
and he was looking for someone who would also be able to comfort him
be a mother and a wife at the same time
and this was the woman whom he had selected
and he had chosen or he had given preference to
so what had happened
Khawla binti Hakim radiallahu anha
went to Sawda
she was married to al-Sakran ibn Amr before
and he passed away radiallahu anha
what a good man
and he had passed away
and now Khawla binti Hakim says to Sawda
I want to give you some good news
the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam has sent me to you
asking you for marriage
meaning your hand in marriage
what do you have to say
she was obviously shocked
she was in awe
she couldn't believe it
she had suffered and suffered so much
the wives that the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam chose
were those who had suffered a lot
and they were in need of protection
they were basically left more or less at the clutches of the enemy
and they were being oppressed in so many ways
so she this was a sigh of relief for her
she said look alhamdulillah
yes I am okay with it
but you need to speak to my father
imagine the father being a non-Muslim
being one of the mushrik of Quraish
still Sawda binti Zam'ah radiallahu anha says
go and speak to my father
so when the message went to the father of this particular woman
Ummul Mumineen Sawda binti Zam'ah radiallahu anha
who was an elderly woman
she wasn't a young girl
he was very happy
he was an old man who was a mushrik
and he was one of those of Makkah
but he was happy to him
his daughter was getting fixed in the right direction
and she would be looked after
by the man who shares the same belief as her
and this was something that he looked at
and thereafter subhanallah
they ended up getting married
it is reported in the tenth year of Hijra
which was the same year
that Khadija binti Khuwailid radiallahu anha had passed away
and Sawda binti Zam'ah was such a happy woman
she looked after the children of Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
to a certain extent
she was within the home
she provided comfort
and she says that never ever did we have any issues or difficulties
she was in awe of this man
what a great man
she learned so much from him
she was protected from her own family members
and the others who had intended to harm her
this was the marriage of Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
after Khadija binti Khuwailid radiallahu anha
now we move further
and we go back to the six names of those six who had accepted Islam
after coming from Madina Munawwara
when the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam met them at the festival
the names, we just mentioned them again so that we know
we mentioned them yesterday
As'ad bnu Zurara radiallahu anha
these names when we hear them wallahi they should make our hair stand
because these were those who sacrificed at the very beginning of Islam
they sacrificed
and they were the ones who gave their lives
and they were the ones whom Allah used to change the entire geopolitical situation
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us
As'ad bnu Zurara radiallahu anha
he wasn't such an old man
he was from Khazraj
then we have A'uth ibn al-Harith
and Rafi' ibn Malik, Qutbah ibn Amir, Uqbah ibn Amir
and Jabir ibn Abdullah
may Allah be pleased with all of them
these people when Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam met them
in Mina
and he told them where are you from?
they said that we are from Madinah Munawarah
they said Yathrib
Yathrib was the name of the place at that particular time
and what had happened is
he spoke to them
can I speak to you for a little while?
yes
I mentioned yesterday the diplomacy of Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
he spoke to them
told them what Quraysh was doing
told them the message
the message of Tawheed
the message of worshipping one Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
your maker
that's who you worship
that is the prime message that he always delivered
and he told them much more about Islam
they accepted it readily
because amongst themselves they said
we know the Jews in Madinah Munawarah
always speak about life after death
they speak about heaven
they speak about hell
and they always speak about the fact that
there is a prophet who is about to come to Madinah
there is a prophet who is about to come
and appear at the moment
his time is here
that is why we are all here
the Jews used to say
subhanallah
so they immediately accepted the message
they were very very happy
and Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
gave them some advice
they had left to Madinah Munawarah
and they were the first people
who actively started talking about Islam in Madinah
and they started spreading it
remember Al-Aws and Khazraj
these were two warring tribes
that were present in Madinah Munawarah
they fought so much
we made mention of the war of Buath yesterday
where a lot of their leaders were killed
that was a blessing in disguise
because the leaders are always worried
about their chair and their leadership
the minute these leaders were killed
now there was a little bit of silence
and you know some moments of reflection
and people licking their wounds
and so on counting their losses
and they happened to meet this man
and now these young men were talking about this man
they had a few friends or acquaintances
from Al-Aws as well
and they started spreading Islam
so much so that in the next Hajj season
in the next Hajj season
they came to pledge allegiance to Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
twelve men, subhanallah
from amongst them five who were there the previous year
so this made seven new ones
and five of those who were already there
and they spoke to Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
giving him good news that Islam has taken
a lot of goodness to Medina Munawwara
and Islam has come to the hearts of the people
they are more readily accepting it
than the people of Mecca
one of the reasons is because
they are not foreign to this whole belief
in the life after death
it's not strange to them
they've been hearing it from the Jewish people
and the Jews continue saying
whenever they lose a war
they say don't worry a messenger is going to come
and we have been promised that
with that messenger we will fight you
and we will win
in the same way that Aad and Thamud were overcome
we will overcome you
so Islam started growing
when they came to Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
it was known as Bayatul Aqabah al-Ula
Al-Aqabah referring to the place where the Jamara
is pelted in Mina
so there where the Jamara
or the pelting of Satan takes place in Mina
that is where the first allegiance
was actually pledged
with 12 men from Medina Munawwara
and their names are there Alhamdulillah
we thank Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
for making it such that this was the way
Islam was going to find a whole new home
and a new base
and from there it was going to grow
in a way that the entire globe
would change thereafter subhanallah
so look here you have the people of Quraysh
persecuting their own family member
and on the other hand you have foreigners
strangers, people who did not know him
and they are welcoming him
they pledged allegiance to Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
upon what? what was this allegiance all about?
the allegiance was on several items
we are going to mention 6 items
because it is reported by some of those
who took part in that particular allegiance
that we pledged the same allegiance
that later on the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
made the women pledge
so here 6 things we are going to mention
the first one
do not engage in shirk subhanallah
none of you
they all pledged allegiance
we will never ever worship anyone besides Allah
no act of worship rendered to anyone
besides Allah our Maker
we never render an act of worship
to anyone besides Him
number one
number two
we will never steal
number three
we will never commit adultery
number four
we will never kill
especially the killing of our own daughters
which was prevalent at the time in the Arabian peninsula
we will never kill
except obviously
if it was required in the sense that
due to the justice system
a killer was to be executed
then that was an exception
and also we will not deceive or lie
we will not deceive or lie
and we will not cheat
deception, lies and cheating was all under one
known as Bohtan
so we ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to protect us
we need to know as we are listening to this
that all these things we also pledged
as Muslims
that we won't engage in
we won't engage in
listen to this
then he says
and they pledged not to disobey
the instruction of the messenger
in goodness
so wherever he instructed
it was not to be disobeyed
they pledged this
and they promised
and the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam said
when he pledged the allegiance with them
if you are to fulfill this pledge
for you is paradise
and if you are to break the pledge
then it is between you and Allah
and it is up to Allah
whether he will punish you or forgive you
look at the power of the words
he didn't say
if you broke the pledge
then I'm going to come and sort you out
or it's going to be bad for me
he was out of the picture there
the pledge was with him
but he says
if you break it
it's between you and Allah
today we are very quick to judge people
mashallah may Allah protect us
very quick
someone does something
it's like as if they owe us the whole religion
so it's up to us to declare them tyrant or not
or it's up to us to declare this person this and that
no, take it easy
subhanallah
even the messenger sallallahu alaihi wasallam
did not do that in a rush
he did not do it in a rush
because a person sinning
it's between him and Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
yes, we have the right to advise
we should, we must
advise, encourage, try our best
but at the same time remember
towards the end of that person's life
they may become saints
towards the end of our lives
only Allah knows what will happen
so we ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
to grant us goodness instead of fastness
so they pledged
and they went back to Madinatul Munawwara
beautiful
they went back to Madinatul Munawwara
and I'm obviously cutting it a little bit short
Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
sent to teach them in Madinatul Munawwara
one of his companions
and a narration makes mention of
someone who accompanied him
who was this companion?
Mus'ab ibn Umayr
radiallahu anhu
remember we spoke about a man
who was smelt before he was seen
who was so spoiled by his mother
and after he accepted Islam
his skin was flaking off
this was Mus'ab ibn Umayr
he had learned so much of the Quran
every day Quran was being revealed
and they were learning it
and they used to find so much joy
and comfort in learning the Quran
how many of us find joy and comfort
in learning the Quran?
how many of us have time in the day
to learn the Quran?
how many days go by
that we haven't even tried to learn the Quran?
when I say learn
we're looking at its wording
the recitation
the Arabic
and in our own languages
to try and understand
the message of our own maker
how many of us make time for that
on a daily basis?
this is why those were
Sahabatul Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
make us from those who can read
at least one verse a day
which won't take you more than five minutes
one verse a day with its meaning
Wallahi
by the will of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
it will come in as a means of our blessings
and as a means of our saviour
comfort, contentment, happiness
in this life and in the akhirah
may Allah make us from amongst those
I'm sure we can do better than just one verse
but that one verse is a start
and none of us have an excuse
we are all able to read and write
unlike the people of Quraysh
at that time the Arabs
they were almost all unlettered
people who could neither read nor write
they only used to listen and hear
and let someone who could read read for them
and so on
Subhanallah
this is why their memories were so powerful
whenever they heard something
they memorized it word for word
powerful memories
they were known to be from amongst those
who had memorized the lineages of their animals
their camels and so on
their horses
they knew exactly up to this day
there are Arabs who know the lineage of their horses
in the rural areas within the Middle East
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us memories
so this was their sacrifice
Mus'ab ibn Umayr radiallahu anhu
went to Madinah Munawwarah
one narration says
with him was the blind companion of Rasulullah
sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Abdullah ibn Umm Maktum radiallahu anhu
you recall the surah
Abasa wa Tawalla
when the prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
was admonished for having frowned
and turned away from the blind man
that was Abdullah ibn Umm Maktum
radiallahu anhu
he was a reciter of the Quran
he was also a muadheen of Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
at some stage
and he was sent to Madinah Munawwarah as well
but mention is mainly made of Mus'ab ibn Umayr
because he was the leader
he was the one who went
and he taught the people for almost an entire year
the following year
just before the season of Hajj
Mus'ab ibn Umayr radiallahu anhu
returned to Madinah Munawwarah
and he spoke to Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
immediately as he came he went to Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
he says oh messenger sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
this is the condition in Madinah Munawwarah
every single home there is someone who is Muslim in it
every home there is someone who is Muslim in it
and subhanallah it became so beautiful
there were certain incidents that had occurred
that were powerful
we should be mentioning them
there was a leader of Aws
whose name was Sa'd ibn Mu'adh radiallahu anhu
what a name
remember that name
we are going to hear about him later on
Sa'd ibn Mu'adh
one of the leaders of Aws
he noticed Mus'ab ibn Umayr
had come to Madinah Munawwarah
and was staying at the house of As'ad ibn Zurara radiallahu anhu
and so he tells Usayid ibn Hudayr who was his cousin
he says you know what
these two here
they have come to spoil the belief of our forefathers
and to contaminate the minds of the people here in Madinah
so go and stop them
go and see what they are all about
and stop them from what they are doing
so Usayid ibn Hudayr later to be known as radiallahu anhu
he went to Mus'ab ibn Umayr
and as he was entering
As'ad ibn Zurara says oh this is one of the leaders of Aws
one of the leaders of Aws
so this man comes in and he says what are you two doing
why is it that you have come here to mess the mindset
and what we've been doing all along and so on
Mus'ab ibn Umayr says hang on
why don't you listen to what I have to say
and then you can make your mind up
if it is palatable and if you feel you'd like to accept it
accept it and if not we can stop
don't worry we won't harm your people
so he says what is it
so Mus'ab ibn Umayr read some Quran
told him about Islam
told him about Tawheed
and not worshipping the idols
told him about Nabi salallahu alaihi wasallam
and immediately Usayid ibn Hudayr
he bears witness
he says you are right
this is a beautiful message
I agree with you and I also bear witness
Subhanallah
look at how many seconds it took them to turn
they came to block to stop
it took them a second or two and they turned
Subhanallah
Usayid ibn Hudayr radiallahu anhu
immediately he was known as
the question for us is
how many of us are ready to surrender
when we hear every day this is right
this is wrong
this is the way it should be
this is the way we wait
sometimes in some cases nowadays
that the globe is a small little village
people wait for loopholes
you know when someone says interest is Haram
we'll start Googling
they call it Sheikh Google
Mashallah
start Googling
who says it's not
when we find a fatwa
we quickly stick to it
I found something else
that's the attitude nowadays
we quickly go and use
Sheikh Google
in order to justify what we want to do
rather than surrendering to it
come on
it says
Allah and his messenger have said this
the game is over
everything stops at that point
Subhanallah
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
make us from those who can surrender
because remember
the only way that we can achieve success
is to follow the command of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
so Usayid ibn Hudayr goes back to
Sa'd ibn Mu'adh
who was waiting for him
and he says
what did you do?
he says no I went
and their message is good
I've heard it and I accept
what do you mean?
how can you do that?
no they spoke about this and this
Sa'd ibn Mu'adh says no
he got up and he also went
to Mus'ab ibn Umayr
do you know what?
exactly the same thing happened to him
what happened to Usayid ibn Hudayr moments earlier
amazing
Sa'd ibn Mu'adh
may Allah be pleased with him
he was one of the leaders of Aos
and he went to Mus'ab ibn Umayr
Sa'd ibn Umayr
telling him
what are you doing here?
he says hang on
listen to me
if you can accept it you will
if not we stop
and when he presented the message
Sa'd ibn Mu'adh accepted the message
look at how beautifully
Islam was being welcomed in one place
and yet where it was born
it was being kicked out from
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us
I want to pause here for a moment
and I want to make mention of a verse of the Quran
that always brings tears to my eyes
because it reminds me of what I've just said moments ago
Allah says
if you turn away
we will replace you with others
who will not be like you
clear verse
so Allah is telling us
oh people
you are the ones who are in desperate need of Allah
Allah is independent
He doesn't need you at all
so if you do not want to obey Allah's instructions
He will replace you with others
who will obey His instructions
and then who would have lost out?
you, no one else
this is the message to us
and this is why I say my sisters
if you don't want to cover
Allah doesn't lose anything
another ten will cover
because of your uncovering
and if we don't want to stop listening to that
which is detrimental to the ears
in terms of music and so on
it's not like Allah is going to be harmed by it
there will be others who will have stopped
because of our non-stopping attitude
and we will have lost out
so remember
if we don't read Salah
there are others who will be reading Salah
in great numbers
in a more beautiful way
we will be at loss
not Allah
others would have gained
so don't miss the boat
we call ourselves Muslims
a Muslim is one who surrenders
why should we not surrender then?
when we call ourselves surrenderers
to the law of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
may Allah make us steadfast
may He make us from those who realize and understand
look at this
the people of Makkah were replaced
by the people of Madina Munawwara
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
and may He grant us a lesson
so I've given you the stories of
Sa'd ibn Mu'adh r.a
and Usaid ibn Hudayr r.a
now let's move on to the pledge
Mus'ab ibn Umayr came slightly earlier
as I mentioned
he spoke to Muhammad s.a.w
and he says
this is the condition in Madina Munawwara
they are more than welcoming
and now they are suggesting
that you need to leave Makkah al-Mukarrama
and come to Madina Munawwara
because according to the hadith of
Jabir ibn Abdullah al-Ansari r.a
he says that we as Ansar
meaning as people of Madina
we thought to ourselves that
how long is this messenger
going to be persecuted in Makkah
it's about time we offered him
a base in Madina Munawwara
Subhanallah
may Allah open our doors
grant us goodness really
look at how broad Allah s.a.w's mercy is
so after some time when the season began
73 men and 2 women came from Madina Munawwara
who were Muslims
amongst the rest of the mushriks of Madina
who had come for Hajj
and Mus'ab ibn Umayr had already informed
Rasulullah s.a.w.
that this is what is coming
and this is what is happening
and from amongst them
Subhanallah
were the powerful ones
As'ad ibn Zorara
and the others who witnessed
not only the first allegiance
but the first entry into Islam
the first allegiance
and the second allegiance
they came
and this time Quraish was very worried
because during the season
they would make sure
nobody meets with this man
Abu Lahab used to walk behind him
every time
and make sure that he doesn't speak to people
and so on
so every time the Prophet s.a.w.
would speak to people at night
when others were asleep
and he would speak to them one by one
in little groups
so on this particular time
the Prophet s.a.w.
instructed these people
not to make an issue of it
and he told them
we will meet at a certain time
upon the days of tashrik
so let the days of Hajj come to an end
and the days of tashrik
which are the days of pelting of the devil
on those days we will meet
and we will meet in the middle of those days
late at night
where no one knows
and we will keep it a secret
so masha'Allah
the Prophet s.a.w. came
and they were all waiting
most of them were young
surprisingly
who was with the Prophet s.a.w.
very big surprise
a non-Muslim
was his uncle
Al-Abbas ibn Abdul Muttalib
you see Abu Talib had passed away
and what happened is
Banu Hashim had already
asked that Muhammad s.a.w. be protected
so he was under the protection
of his clan from Quraysh
and Al-Abbas
took the role of Abu Talib
to a lesser degree
but he was there
so he knew
that there's something going to happen
and so on
because although he was a mushrik
he had that blood
and the lineage
between him and Muhammad s.a.w.
this being my brother's child
I cannot see him go
you know to the wolves
let me at least
see that everything that's happening is okay
and he can find safe passage to go
perhaps to Madina Munawwara
or anywhere else
so when they met
the 73 plus the two women
plus Muhammad s.a.w.
and with him was Al-Abbas ibn Abdul Muttalib
the first to speak was Al-Abbas ibn Abdul Muttalib
he says
I am the uncle of this man
and he has the protection of Banu Hashim
from Quraysh
and he is finding difficulty
because of what you know
and you people have offered him
passage to Madina Munawwara
are you sure
you will be able to look after him
and are you sure
and so on
if you cannot
don't worry
we are not imposing it on you
we can take him back
and you can just deny or decline
and let us know from now
so immediately
they got up
a caller from amongst them got up
and they said no
we will definitely, definitely
protect him
what is it that he wants
Subhanallah
now this was an allegiance
these are Muslimi
who had accepted Islam
but now what was happening is
because they had
invited him to Madina Munawwara
and the Prophet s.a.w.
was shown in his dream
that he was migrating to a place
where there were date palms
between two rocky deserts
date palms between two rocky deserts
now he saw a dream a few times
the first time he had seen the dream
he had cut it down to three places
that is probably here or there
Hajar
it's probably Madina Munawwara
meaning Yathrib
and Subhanallah
perhaps Yamama
and what happened is
when he saw the next dream
it made it clear that this place is Yathrib
so the Prophet s.a.w.
had known in his heart
that Allah has revealed
because as you know
the dreams of the Prophets are
revelation
so now these people
they had offered Rasulullah s.a.w.
and the Prophet s.a.w.
told them that
we would like the following
in fact when they said
let us hear from him
what he wants
he got up
and he started off by reading the Quran
talaa alayhimul Quran
according to the narration
he got up and he read Quran to them
and then the second thing he did
he called them towards
worshipping Allah alone
these people were already Muslimin
but he's inviting them again
to tell them worship Allah alone
reminding them
and he got them interested in Islam
and at the same time
he then said
there are two things
two things that you need to bear witness
or you need to pledge
one is the pledge between you and Allah
and one is the pledge between you and me
what was the pledge between them and Allah?
one thing
worship Allah alone
and don't engage in any form of shirk
never ever associate a partner
with Allah s.a.w.
that was the pledge
between them and Allah
so this was the first part of the pledge
I want to repeat it because it's important
people don't like it sometimes
when we speak of Tawheed, Tawheed
and this is shirk and that is shirk
wallahi anything where shirk is smelt
we need to be far away from it
if people are disputing something
stay away
we don't want it
because it's better for us to do that
which nobody is disputing
there's enough in Islam
of items that nobody disputes
that we can engage in
engage in before we enter into disputed territory
may Allah s.a.w. protect us and grant us goodness
so he said this is between you and Allah
don't ever engage in shirk
and between you and me
he says, subhanallah
I am pledging allegiance with you
or you pledge with me
that you will protect me from the same thing
you protect your wives and your family members from
anything that happens to them
how do you protect them?
that's how you will protect me
and if you do that
I will come in for Hijra
and this was a beautiful statement
because when people have their own children
and their own wives
how do they protect them?
exactly how they would protect them
he says, you consider me
one of your own family
and you would protect me
so now they had heard this
and Abu al-Haytham al-Tayyihan
he was one of those who was there
may Allah be pleased with them all
he says, I have a question
what's the question?
say for example, you know we have the people
we have signed treaties with and so on
and one day if your deen
if this deen of ours becomes so big and so on
would you return to Makkat al-Mukarramah?
would you return to Makkah?
or would you consider yourselves
yourself as one of us?
so the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم says
your treaties are mine
I am from you and you are from me
and Nabi صلى الله عليه وسلم made it very clear
that once the Hijra takes place
his new abode will be Al-Madinah
so returning to Makkah
would be out of a question
and if you think of it carefully
when the victory of Makkah happened
Nabi صلى الله عليه وسلم did not stay in Makkah
he returned to Madinah Munawwarah
and he passed away there, Subhanallah
look at this
and this is why today
you have Makkat al-Mukarramah
the environment is so different
in Makkah and in Madinah
you feel Makkah, the heat, the mountains
and so much
and in Madinah you feel the calm, serene air
you can feel it
all those who visited it Masha'Allah
you would know the difference
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
so upon that they pledged allegiance
Subhanallah
he said I will fight whom you fight
and I make peace with whom you make peace with
I am one of you
they pledged allegiance
and they were very very strong on that allegiance
and the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم says
let's select from amongst you 12 men
just like Jesus may peace be upon him
had 12 disciples
select from amongst you 12 men
who will be like the caretakers
people who will look after the Muslims in Madinah Munawwarah
Subhanallah they selected 12 men
their names are there
there were people from Al-Khazraj most of them
and a few from Aws
and these 12 their duty was
to take care of the Muslims in Madinah Munawwarah
and to look after them and so on
and in the meantime
whilst this pledge was being made
Shaytan announced to Quraysh
in Mina
that a war is being planned against you
by Muhammad
and the people of Madinah
the people of Yathrib
are pledging an allegiance with him
so Rasulullah صلى الله عليه وسلم
at that particular moment
told these people go back to your caravans
and you know just disperse
so it was cut without further ado
the meeting was closed
and they had returned
when they returned in the morning
the leaders of Quraysh
went to the people of Aws and Khazraj
from Yathrib
and they say
last night there was an allegiance
there was an allegiance that was pledged here
with Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
and you people
what was it?
now who did Quraysh go to?
that's a very interesting question
Quraysh went to the leaders
the older people
the people they knew
Al-Abbas ibn Abdul Muttalib
who was there in the evening
he says
I don't recognize these people
what does that mean?
I'm an old man
these are all youth
so see Islam spread
through the youth
the young people
they took up the challenge
and they said we will fight
if this is the case
if we have to
to protect the deen
and this man who is a nabi
who is a prophet of Allah
صلى الله عليه وسلم
so Al-Abbas says
I don't recognize these people
but he knew the people of Medina
the older generation
so when Quraysh met
the people of Aws and Khazraj
the following morning
they met with the older people
and they said
this is what happened
now the younger people
are just sitting and watching
the olders are saying
no ways
this thing never happened
wallahi it didn't happen
they were telling the truth
because they didn't know
anything about it
young people were all quiet
and they were just sitting
and watching around
looking at each other
and subhanallah
the old people are saying
wallahi
nothing of this nature happened
and then Quraysh
they felt that
perhaps you know
there was something
that maybe we had
wrong information about
and so on
and it died down
but thereafter
the Hijra began
subhanallah
and I'm going to start
with the story
of the first person
who made Hijra
for your information
there were some people
who had gone to
Medina Munawwara
prior to this bay'a
prior to this time
on an individual basis
but that was also
considered Hijra
one of the first
from amongst them
was Abu Salama
Abu Salama
he was a man
who was persecuted
to the point
that he was killed
and he was killed
Abu Salama
was persecuted
to the degree
that he had gone
to Abyssinia
and in Abyssinia
the rumour had spread
that these people
have now struck something
and people are accepting Islam
and the Muslims
are now strong
and they began
to come back
so him
he came back
from Abyssinia
his wife
Umm Salama
radiya allahu anha
they were from
amongst the early Muslims
she was also married
by Rasulullah
sallallahu alaihi wasallam
after the death
of Abu Salama
but listen to what happened
this is one of the
this is one of the most
touching stories
when it comes to the Hijra
Abu Salama
he was being persecuted
by Quraysh
in so many different ways
so one day he decided
let me put
this was about a year before
the Bay'ah of Aqaba
he decided
let me put all my provisions
onto this animal of mine
and let's go
he took his wife
and he took Salama
Salama is the little baby
a little boy
and he said let's go
and as he was leaving
the family
or the clan of his wife
of Umm Salama
saw him
and they said
do you think
we are going to allow you
to flee
with our daughter
and the little child
no ways
not at all
so they took
Umm Salama away
with Salama
and Abu Salama
the father of Salama
this man
he decided
you know what
I have to go
and the wife
did not want to be
separated at all
she pleaded with them
they said no
we are not allowing
this to happen
he went to
Madina Munawwara
she says
my people
took me
and kept me
and then
the people of
Salama
Abu Salama
they came
and they said
do you think
we are going to
leave this child
with you
we can't do that
so they took
the child away
so now she is
with her people
the child is
with her husband's people
she was separated
completely
three ways
three ways separation
and she says
I recall
that I used to
sit outside
and cry
from morning
to evening
every day
for how long
a week
a month
two months
a year
and slightly over
then
slightly over a year
she used to cry
every day
morning
to evening
making dua to Allah
asking Allah
to open her doors
I want to be
united with my child
united with my husband
and I'd like
the three of us
to be united
until one day
one of her cousins
passed
and saw her
crying every day
she's crying
so he went to speak
to the rest of the family
why don't you
just let her have
what she wants
so she bore
patience for the whole year
slightly more than a year
as we said
and then what happened
they agreed
and they said
after they saw
that her condition
has deteriorated
to a degree
that they could
not even
feel to look at her
and they said
okay you can go
she was so happy
she got her child back
Subhanallah
and she got
a little animal
she put some provisions
now Medina Munawara
is very very far
and you need a guide
you need to know
where to go
and how to go
someone who's
experienced on the path
otherwise
it was not like
a highway today
and nowadays
you've got a little
garment or a tom-tom
that can just
guide you here and there
it wasn't like that
it was
they used to look
at night
because of the heat
of the day
and so on
and sometimes
during the day
if the weather was okay
and she was not
worried about anything
she just had
herself, her child
and Allah
she jumped on
the animal of hers
and she started
proceeding
with a little provision
so what happened is
as she
got to the place
known as Tan'im
Tan'im is in the
outskirts of
Makkah Mukarrama
on the way to
Medina Munawara
not very far
nowadays it's considered
as inside Makkah
so to speak
if you look at the
city of Makkah
but it is considered
as the final point
of the Haram
in the Sharia
so Tan'im
today there is a
Masjid
commonly known as
Masjid Umrah
or Masjid Aisha
that's the point
when she had got there
a man from Quraish
who was a noble
a good man
his name was
Uthman ibn Talha
saw her
and when he saw her
he said
where are you going?
she said
I'm going to
Medina Munawara
are you crazy?
you're going to
Medina Munawara
you're a woman
you're all on your own
do you know the path?
who is with you?
do you have any company?
she says
it's me, my child
and Allah
we are going
I'm going to my husband
look at the determination
she didn't even
tell the rest
she was on her way
so Uthman
ibn Talha
decides
and this was a sign
of the honor
of some of the
members of Quraish
there was still
some goodness
you cannot go alone
let me take you
so Umm Salama
agreed
so he was riding
she was riding
he was walking
at a certain stage
whenever they needed
to stop
with utmost respect
communication was
very little
they did not speak
unnecessarily
he would stop
let the animal come down
then he would
move away
then she would
disembark
and then she would
do whatever she had to
she would embark again
then he would
come back
so
he dealt with her
with utmost respect
so much so
that later on
she says
that wallahi
I have not
seen a more
nobleman
than this man
Uthman
ibn Talha
who took me
all the way
to Madina Munawwara
with so much dignity
so much respect
and he
really
went out of his way
to take me
all the way
to
the outskirts
of Madina Munawwara
Subhanallah
so this man
had travelled with her
and they
when they arrived
in Madina Munawwara
just by
Quba
where the husband
was
or had settled
they
he left her there
and said
this is where
your husband is
I am returning
back to
Makkat al Mukarrama
and you can now
proceed
in the name of Allah
and these were
people who were
mushriks
they were
polytheists
they were desperate
they used to call out
on the Maker
and they knew Allah
the worshipped one
they did not deny Allah
as we said
in one of our
first episodes
where they did not
deny Allah
Subhanahu wa Ta'ala
the Quran says
Walain sa'altahum
man khalaqahum
layakoolun
Allah
if you ask
them
who created you
they would say
Allah
this man
Uthman
ibn Talha
later on
after the treaty
of Hudaibiyah
he had accepted
Islam
to be known
as
but between that period
he had not
accepted Islam
he was an
honest and upright
man
perhaps
the light of
Iman
and Islam
had started
entering his heart
at that particular
time
when he treated
a Muslim woman
with utmost
respect
took her
all the way
to Madina
Munawwara
and came back
and did not
want anything
but the
affection
of a woman
who was alone
and do you
know the
journey
it's not
a two hour
journey
four hour
no
it used
to be
between
eight
and
sixteen days
of
journey
between
eight
and
sixteen
days
of
travel
and those
Muslim women
Would do so without wanting a favor in return. Let's be honest
Many people when they when they see someone and I've said this before it's a red button
But we need to press it because we learn from the Mushrik's of Quraish
When we see a person. Oh, there's a sister
She is traveling in her vehicle and she has had a flat tire for example
Take a look at her. She's a pretty girl good shape. Mashallah. You stop and you help why because of what she looked like
The minute she's a fat auntie. Nobody wants to help Allah protect us. It's a fact
This is what's happening or you might have a few may Allah protect us
When we help we help for the pleasure of Allah
You don't need to know a name and you don't need to know a phone number nothing and you don't need to ever have met the
Person again in your life. Never ever you help in the same way
Uthman abni Talha helped and you'll find that Iman also entering the heart of myself and yourself
May Allah protect us may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala make us not from amongst those whom we see a woman vulnerable and we want to
Abuse we want favors. I will do billah may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us
It is a problem across the globe
We find today we are living in this in a situation where people are very very self-centered
Whatever they do they want something back in return. We don't think of the reward sometimes
It is us who are meaning we should be thinking of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
We can help people without ever
Meeting them again except perhaps in Jannah
We might meet them and they might remind us one day you help me and they will give us a dua
Without us knowing them. I want to end by saying
The most powerful prayer that anyone could ever make is the prayer of a person
Who is making a prayer for another person?
Who doesn't even know that they are praying for them?
Subhanallah may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala make us from amongst those until we meet again inshallah tomorrow to continue with the bulk of the
Hijrah and we will learn some very interesting facts. We say
You